Normally I think most people would associate work with emotions other than
bliss. It's not often in life you can find yourself working in a job with people
who are on the same page as you. It's also not too often in life you can find
yourself working in a job where the things you are passionately interested in
are what people want you to work on. Combine the two previously mentioned
"hard-to-find" qualities with a brand new MacBook Pro and a healthy salary
(there's something to be said for getting paid well for the things you love to
do) and you have what I would consider the recipe for the perfect job; aka: work
bliss.

Today is my first day at [VendAsta](http://www.vendasta.com) and already I've
been able to configure my work environment the way I want (3 cheers for
[TextMate](http://macromates.com/), [SVN](http://subversion.tigris.org/),
[FireBug](http://www.getfirebug.com),
[FireWorks](http://www.adobe.com/fireworks)) after being told if there was
anything I need to just let them know and they'd have no problem getting it. So
I got right into things, checked out a few projects from SVN that we're working
on utilizing [Django](http://www.djangoproject.com) and [Google App
Engine](http://code.google.com/appengine/). Normally at a new job you'd probably
have a lot of red tape and "new hire" overhead to go through; not at VendAsta.
\<*sarcasm*\>I couldn't believe there was \**gasp*\* documentation for the
projects!\</*sarcasm*\> There's something to be said for working with quality
processes like [Scrum](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_(development)) and
[Agile](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_software_development), and great
tools like [JIRA](http://www.atlassian.com/software/jira/) and
[GoogleApps](http://www.google.com/a/help/intl/en/index.html) at a software
development company; try working without these things, it's just not fun.

I think the thing I've been impressed with most in my first day at VendAsta is
the fact that there are people who are willing to listen to my ideas. I don't
feel intimidated at all, the culture here is very welcoming and open and the
tools provided make it very easy to actually want to be as productive as you can
be. Obviously it's only the first day on the job so I can't expect you all to
take everything I'm saying at face value. Time will tell how things pan out, but
after the first day I can definitely say that my first day @ VendAsta has been
far more enlightening and empowering than a couple of years working for other
companies :)
