# david mosher

## This is an archived post This is an archived post

[Previous](../../../posts/2009/07/the-most-important-view-in-a-band.html)  
[Index](../../../index-4.html)  
[Next](../../../posts/2009/07/static-design-processes-lead-to-usability-fai.html)

### Usability failures in the wild: Lego and Petro Canada

July 8 2009, 10:11 AM  by David Mosher

I've been doing a lot of reading about usability. It's made me think a lot about
the user experience when I'm designing and developing. It's also made me think a
lot about the user experience when I'm *NOT* doing anything computer related.

### Lego.com Usability Failure

I recently went to the [Lego](www.lego.com) website to try and get a catalog
sent to my house. I remember reading through these catalogs as a kid and coming
up with all sorts of creative things I would be able to do when/if I received a
certain set. Heck, half the fun for me was just looking at what the Lego
designers had come up with. So yesterday I wanted to order a catalog for Andy,
my 2.5 year old son, as he's been really enjoying our Lego collection. When I
got to the last screen in the slideshow and tried to go back to re-enter my
correct age, it wouldn't let me! It cookied me and I had to clear my cache to be
able to re-enter the form information. Grrr..

[Here's the [catalog request
form](http://shop.lego.com/TermsPolicies/request_catalog.asp), so you don't have
to hunt for it] :)

![](../../../image/2009/07/890217-Picture%208.png)
![](../../../image/2009/07/890218-Picture%209.png)
![](../../../image/2009/07/890219-Picture%2010.png)
![](../../../image/2009/07/890220-Picture%2011.png)
![](../../../image/2009/07/890221-Picture%2012.png)
![](../../../image/2009/07/890222-Picture%2013.png)
![](../../../image/2009/07/890223-Picture%2014.png)
![](../../../image/2009/07/890224-Picture%2015.png)

### Petro Canada Usability Failure

I went to fill up my car the other day, and wanted to pay at the pump. There
were 2 icons to display the "right" way to insert my debit card... which one was
the right one?

![](http://posterous.com/getfile/files.posterous.com/davemo/lI80mo89riaJ4pjbDODWzwyMF59Lo4wTwCWiHoQ7pDxaewtGBlwa6MYbAbE5/Picture_15.png.scaled.500.jpg)

(As an aside, I realize the irony in posting about usability failures when
Posterous won't even let me select a single image to display underneath my
headings. It wraps them all up into this slideshow. Hey Posterous, if you're
listening, how about an interface that allows me to select and insert single
images that were uploaded as part of a bundle?)

#### Tags

lego, usability, ux

#### 34449 views and 3 responses

-   Jul 8 2009, 11:12 AM
    Matt Ventre responded:
    Gas pump interfaces vary so wildly from station to station and their
    usability fluctuates accordingly. I've yet to see a visual contradiction
    like the one you posted, but I'm not at all surprised. How did the
    fuel-grade selection interface work on this particular pump? That's
    something that I've observed tripping people up very frequently. Cameron
    Moll wrote about this last year, interestingly enough, in a piece arguing
    the benefits of attending conferences
    ([http://is.gd/1riO6)](http://is.gd/1riO6))
-   Jul 8 2009, 12:07 PM

    David Mosher responded:

    Similar to the images Cameron Moll posted, there are 3 buttons below that
    have both the grade and price displayed. The usability of the pump overall
    wasn't something I considered and I should have taken a picture of the whole
    thing for future reference. It just struck me in a couple ways: 1) that
    since reading all this UX material I've noticed things like this and 2) it
    was such a stark contrast because the icon was a complete mirror image.

    I wonder had I not been as aware of usability problems due to my reading
    would I have even noticed it ;)

-   Aug 14 2012, 7:54 AM
    Gurwinder Singh responded:
    [I](www.infozguide.com) really liked this post!!
