I attended Bar Camp Saskatoon today and while I wasn't able to stay for the
entire series of presentations what I did manage to see was great. I presented
on [SASS](https://www.sass-lang.com), [Compass](https://www.compass-style.org) and
CSS Frameworks. My presentation didn't go exactly as I'd planned but I learned
things from that experience and from other peoples presentations.

**1. Your presentation doesn't have to be long to be effective.**

[Nate Heagy's](https://twitter.com/nheagy) presentation on JavaScript was
perfect, IMHO. It was about 15 minutes of airtime that offered about another 10
to 15 minutes of discussion. The time slot allotment is just about an hour
(including time for questions) but I felt like given the open format of Bar Camp
less talk and more group discussion works really well. Also, kudos to Nate for
imbuing his presentation with a healthy dose of humour in addition to the
excellent information. Engaging++

**2. If you do live coding, be uber prepared for failure ... and recover
gracefully if possible.**

After last years presentation on using Yahoo Pipes for one of our corporate
website projects I thought it might be nice to do some actual live coding for a
bar camp presentation. Admittedly I had no idea how this would go over given the
skill level of attendees, technical capabilities of the presentation
environment, scope of my presentation and a whole bunch of other variables I
hummed and haah'd over. My goal was to take a web page design from zilch to
completion using the techniques I'd learned in with SASS and Compass while
providing some tips / insight into tricks I've integrated into my development
process along the way. It turned out to be more of a brief feature demonstration
of SASS, some extended use of Firebug as an inspection tool, and some examples
of what I feel is wrong with the way CSS frameworks are used these days. I think
I could have condensed it to be shorter with less live coding and focused on the
idea I opened with, that CSS Frameworks go against the very nature of what CSS
was provided to do, but SASS and Compass fix this by allowing you to continue to
use the frameworks without presentational class names.

I made a few flubs and things didn't work out exactly how I thought, but the
experience of presenting in front of a large group of people is very valuable
and the more I do it the more I learn what works and what doesn't. (If you're
interested in the very disorganized collection of assets I produced for the talk
they are available [here](https://bit.ly/6PsWqr)). If I could retool it I think
I'd go back and stick to my script more (I generated a series of notes that I
kind of "forgot" to use during the presentation -- nerves and all that),
condense it significantly and offer more time for discussion.

**3. Saskatoon has a vibrant, growing tech-community. This is awesome.**

I've lived in Saskatoon since 1999. In the 10 years I've been here I have to say
I don't think I've ever been as excited about living somewhere as I am right now
(and I've lived coast to coast, north to south within Canada). There are so many
people here with similar interests and it's great to see technology enthusiasts
out at these events. It promotes the development of Saskatoon as even more of a
western tech-mecca than people already perceive. It's great that people like
[Ginger Koolick](https://twitter.com/gingerk) and [Ryan
Lejbak](https://twitter.com/ryanlejbak) have taken the initiative to develop this
sort of community (and my apologies if I missed your name and you were a key
part of the involvement of Bar Camp Saskatoon) and companies like
[zu](https://www.zu.com), [Point2](https://www.point2.com), [YasTech](https://www.yastech.ca)
(and more) are willing to spend time and effort sponsoring the events. (Wanted:
[VendAsta](https://www.vendasta.com) as a sponsor for next year!)

I'm stoked to connect more with people in the tech-community within Saskatoon
and continue to learn from interesting people. Can't wait until Bar Camp
Saskatoon 2010 :D

