# david mosher

## This is an archived post This is an archived post

[Previous](../../../posts/2009/07/static-design-processes-lead-to-usability-fai.html)
  [Index](../../../index-4.html)  
[Next](../../../posts/2009/06/useful-bash-scripting.html)

### AEA 09, Themes and Perspective

June 24 2009, 2:34 PM  by David Mosher

I'm sitting in Boston's Logan International Airport because my flight was
delayed. Normally I'd be tired and cranky but I'm just tired;  the rest of me is
so encouraged due to the emotional and motivational high I'm on after
participating in [An Event Apart: Boston,
2009](http://www.aneventapart.com/2009/boston/).

Having not attended before, I arrived not knowing what to expect and was fairly
intimidated by the number of people in attendance. My fear quickly dissipated
after the first day of presentations and the opening night party, which brings
me to the first of a couple themes I identified throughout the conference.

**Connection**

There was connection everywhere at AEA09; mobile devices, laptops, business
cards, conversations and ideas that connected with each other to form a common
framework for the event. The most important type of connection I participated in
was personal interaction and meeting new people. At the opening night party I
had the privilege to speak with some of the presenters including [Jeremy
Keith](http://www.adactio.com) (@adactio), [Joshua
Porter](http://www.bokardo.com) (@bokardo) and [Whitney
Hess](http://www.whitneyhess.com) (@whitneyhess). All of them had really
interesting things to say but what struck me was the common thread amongst them
all: passion for the content, the standards, and the users. Even amongst
non-presenters this seemed to be a common theme.

That evening I also had an engaging discussion with a Googler and two Facebook
employees. We talked about MyFrontSteps and Homebook, development strategies,
front-end unit testing, user experience and what the most successful types of
social software are. An interesting point they raised was that the most
successful applications are those that don't compete with what the Facebook
platform currently offers users. I learned that Google and Facebook don't do any
javascript unit testing. The Gmail team doesn't use GWT (as it was experimental
when Gmail was being built). Facebook has a fairly small team of front end
developers and 1 person was responsible for the Facebook iPhone application.

**Pixel Perfection is Dead**

For about a year now I've thought that being required to produce pixel perfect
websites across so many different browsers is insane. This theme was definitely
apparent throughout AEA09 as multiple presenters hammered this point across.
It's almost like they wanted to really drill it into the attendees so that we
can go back to our clients and continue to communicate the point. [Dan
Cederholm](http://www.simplebits.com), Jeremy Keith and [Andy
Clarke](http://www.stuffandnonsense.co.uk/) all provided audience participation
moments where they would yell "[Do websites have to look the same in every
browser?](http://dowebsitesneedtolookexactlythesameineverybrowser.com/)" to
which the crowd would emphatically (and sometimes, not so emphatically) respond
"NO!"

It definitely seems like a touchy subject; at one point someone in the crowd
shouted "YES!" because she was convinced that her clients could never be
persuaded that this was the way to go. I think it's inevitable that web
developers and designers are going to get to a turning point where supporting 8
or 9 browser rendering differences is just not going to be feasible to clients
from a monetary point of view. As Andy Clarke put it during his presentation,
"your clients will quit worrying about pixel perfection when you convince them
of the value you can offer by producing more features that make them money in
less time." -(rough paraphrase). There was much talk of "visual rewards",
basically offering the nice visual touches to the browsers that support them
without worrying if IE looks good. Safari4, Firefox3.5 support border-radius,
text-shadow, box-shadow and rgba; Internet Explorer doesn't. That's ok, IE can
live without those flourishes because ultimately it's all about the content
anyways, right? ;) In fact, Andy Clarke has gone as far as creating a [style
sheet](http://forabeautifulweb.com/blog/about/universal_internet_explorer_6_css/)
that can be fed to IE6 that strips away all substance except the text and
positioning. 

Perhaps it would be more accurate to say that IE needs to die, but web
developers have been saying that for years and it hasn't happened yet. We need
to convince our clients that the time spent creating unsemantic markup and hacks
to get things to work in IE just isn't worth it.

**User Experience is Exploding**

UX, IA, IxD: all these te rms seem fairly new to me but there were so many
people at AEA09 who were involved with these disciplines in one way or another.
The importance of these positions should NOT be underestimated. Interaction
Design, in particular, is an area I feel is severely underrepresented in most
organizations. So many times design teams produce static mockups in a very
high-fidelity mode through applications like photoshop or fireworks without
giving any consideration to user interaction. It's virtually impossible to
uncover problems with interaction usability through static mockups and often
these issues are not extracted until late in the development process. The
solution is to start with a much lower-fidelity solution like paper prototypes
and then possibly interactive html mockups. Once these have been created
usability testing should be performed at each stage and iterations in design
should be rapid. Too often usability testing happens at the end of the
development process and this needs to change.

Whitney Hess, a presenter and UX Engineer who I had the pleasure of meeting,
encouraged me greatly in this area. Producing web interfaces that are clunky and
unusable is a surefire way to limit revenue, but aside from the business
concerns I feel that at the heart of UX there is a method to connect people with
technology in ways that aren't limiting. I can't take full credit for that
initial thought however, as a great conversation with [Matt
Ventre](http://www.matthewventre.com/) is what really prompted me to see the
true nature of UX. If anything, we should be producing web interfaces that focus
on providing great content that is portable and formatted in a standards
compliant way, housed in an interface that makes the entire experience seamless.

**Epiblog (yes, I made that up - think epilogue)**

I head back to Saskatoon with a sense of determination and optimism. An Event
Apart is truly a special place, one that empowers people to spread the gospel of
standards, openness, user experience and excellent design. I think Andy Clarke
is right when he says that we're in a transition time in the web development
world. I tweeted the other day that I couldn't remember how I managed to develop
before Firebug; I think it will be the same way 5 years from now except we'll be
asking how we ever managed without making UX a priority ;)

#### Tags

aea, aea09, aeaboston, design, ia, ixd, usability, ux

#### 39861 views and 2 responses

-   Jun 24 2009, 10:12 PM

    bzabos (Twitter) responded:

    I second everything dmo has mentioned here, the amount of energy moving
    towards standards and content driven design was incredible.

    The approaches taken to design were far from anything I had seen before. The
    difference between cracking open photoshop for a first pass vs. performng
    all types of analysis and research into what answer were trying to solve in
    the first place!

    It just makes so much sense to figure out the question "what is the
    problem?" before attempting solve "how do we solve that problem?".

-   Jun 25 2009, 3:49 AM

    tmo responded:

    sounds like you had a great time and filled your brain with oodles of ideas
    and direction for the future!

    also i'd like to ad that i understood 98% of the content in this post ;)

