Since my excursion to [AEA](http://www.aneventapart.com) '09 in Boston I've been
doing a lot of thinking about all of this "User Experience" stuff. Much of what
Andy Clarke said in his [Walls Come Tumbling Down
presentation](http://www.forabeautifulweb.com/blog/about/walls_come_tumbling_down_presentation_slides_and_transcript/)
has been ringing around in my head, resonating with so much of my experiences
over the last few years. Without diving into the entire presentations coverage
of the current economic situation being a stimulator for workflow process
change, I want to focus on a few thoughts from 1
[slide](http://www.stuffandnonsense.co.uk/content/img/2009-06-26-020.jpg) in
Andy's presentation.

> **"Designers work on static look and feel visuals"**

There is a design disconnect problem when the medium we publish to (the web)
doesn't match the medium we design in (static images). The web is dynamic,
elastic, portable, modular and can be repurposed in any number of ways. Many web
designers work in Photoshop and Fireworks to produce mockups that are static,
rigid, not portable and often discarded after the initial design process. By
designing in these static tools it is nearly impossible to answer the "what if?"
type questions that we need to be asked in order to improve the efficiency of
our design process and, most importantly, the usability of our websites and
applications. What if the font size is increased by the user? How does that
affect neighboring content? What happens if this column appears second in the
markup? These things are all dynamic in nature and these questions cannot be
effectively answered when the tool we use to produce mockups is static in
nature.

> **"Designers and developers often work separately"**

I firmly believe that if we are to improve the user experience of our
applications that designers and developers need to work in harmony from the very
beginning. Traditional "designer/ux" work processes such as paper prototyping,
white-boarding and lo-fidelity mockup construction should be participated in by
developers. In fact, the entire design process needs to have input from both
designer and developers in order to be successful. Far too often designers pitch
concepts and hi-fidelity mockups "over the wall" to developers once things have
been finalized, creating a disconnect between the two; this promotes division
and resentment. Designers often don't understand the limitations that might be
imposed given the technology that developers have been given to work with, and
developers often don't understand the usability considerations that went into
design decisions. Developers might have insight into usability based on past
experience that can go unheard because they aren't included in the design
process, and designers might know what the best way to develop a certain feature
might be. (You can see how this could go on and on).

In a perfect world we'd all be designer/developers with the capability to have
enough foresight to solve all these problems before they happen; unfortunately
this is not a perfect world. I think the solution to this disconnect isn't that
complicated though; mutual respect for each part of the process is a start. If
design and development can co-exist with unburdened communication in the early
stages of a project things will be in much better shape. Part of this has to do
with breaking down the traditional barriers that seem to exist between these two
disciplines, but I believe Kent Beck covers this
[subject](http://www.threeriversinstitute.org/blog/?p=205) in much more elegance
than I would.

> **"Testing, by users and for browsers and accessibility comes last"**

It's interesting to me that the people we build websites and web applications
for are often consulted last when it comes to design and usability
considerations. Even when there are people on a project team who have usability
experience it seems that \_they\_ are the ones consulted when really we should
be pouring our initial efforts into getting feedback from potential users. It is
so arrogant of us as designers/developers to make assumptions about what is
"best for the user" without ever asking them. This can be a hard problem to
tackle because many teams don't have dedicated testers and some teams utilize
developers to do nearly all of the functional testing. Developers \_can\_ test,
but they aren't the best testers in my opinion; developers are often working in
an isolated area of a website/application and don't have the "birds-eye view"
required to really understand how all of the components fit together. When
developers are the primary people doing user/functional testing, and this
testing comes at the end of an iteration it can lead to design implementations
that often overlook simple usability problems.

These problems are all solvable, they just involve a lot of open communication
and respect between developers and designers and the willingness to abandon
processes that are based on static models. The web is dynamic and we should be
in our design/development methods as well.
