---
title: "Immersed in agile"
date: "2011-05-27"
---

<aside class="tldr">
Little-a "agile" software development is more about trust and show, and less about contracts and tell.
</aside>

I started working as an independent contractor for [Pillar
Technology](https://www.pillartechnology.com/) over 6 months ago (Nov 1, 2010).
At the time, I had no idea what was in store for me; looking back now I think
I've hit a new point from which to grow in my career so it seems time to engage
in a retrospective on the last year.

## Some History

Prior to working with Pillar I spent just over 2 years working on a number of
projects at [VendAsta Technologies](https://www.vendasta.com/). I grew a lot in
those 2 years but mostly in a technical capacity. Things like continuous
integration, build configuration, and (briefly) unit testing were introduced to
me. It was enlightening to get a taste of the technical goodness offered by
those things but ultimately I felt like there was no one there who could guide
me in the underlying principles that necessitate them. At the same time I was
introduced to many of the core concepts of this thing people in the software
development community call "agile". Coming out of VendAsta in 2010 I thought I
knew what agile was. I thought it was Scrum, XP, TDD, continuous integration and
a whole host of other technical terms.

Looking back at where I've come in the last 7 months I don't think I can say I
know what agile is even now, because it is an ephemeral thing that seems to be
constantly evolving. What I can say is that I know a lot more about the core of
what's important in software development: delivering business value and earning
the trust of those you work with.

## Trust and Value over Working Software

My first 6 months with Pillar were served working on a client project for
[Gordon Food Services](https://www.gfs.com/en) out of Grand Rapids, MI. I worked
remotely for those 6 months out of an office in my basement that
[Tanys](https://www.twitter.com/littlemrsmosher) and I built the week before I
started. A brief note on working remotely: it opened my eyes up to a key thing
that's required to be successful in life; self-discipline. I had my doubts about
how effective I could be remotely but I decided it was worth the challenge and
committed to myself that I would do what it took. Getting up at 7 am to make
standup in the morning (hello, 2 hour time zone difference), pushing myself to
keep lines of communication open, and pouring my heart and soul into building
trust with the client; these are the things I did over those 6 months. And it
paid off. I grew in my technical knowledge but also in my ability to cultivate
good business relationships.

The people at both the client and Pillar have been great, providing much in the
way of the mentoring and leadership around the principles of good software
development that I had craved for such a long time. In 6 months working for GFS
the team I was part of a team that produced software faster, with less defects,
and with more value than any other project I've been on. The experience was
energizing and opened my eyes to the power of building trust and constantly
delivering value all while adhering to solid software craftsmanship principles.

## Beyond TDD

Prior to joining Pillar I thought I had a pretty good grasp on the technical
concepts surrounding "agile". 7 months later my eyes have been opened to how
much more than technicality agile really is. At its heart, agile is a way of
thinking that promotes accountability, integrity, quality, and value oriented
thinking. I used to think writing tests was something you did after writing
production code to verify the behaviour you had crafted. Now I understand
that "The fundamental conundrum of software development: I can code fast when I
have a good design but I can't design until I've coded slowly." ([Kent
Beck](https://twitoaster.com/kentbeck/the-fundamental-conundrum-of-software-development-i-can-code-fast-when-i-have-a-good-design-but-i-cant-design-until-ive-coded-slowly/)).

A good design is achieved by thinking out architecture by writing tests first.
I've also learned that tests can act as documentation by example, so it's
important to continually curate test code so that it doesn't grow stagnant. Most
importantly of all I've seen the power of having a codebase with 95%+ test
coverage and how that acts as a safety net to making change. This last point
can't be overstated; the freedom experienced through red/green/refactor makes
change cheap and development incredibly enjoyable. At the core of my change here
from 7 months ago is a paradigm shift in the way I think about developing: I
don't feel responsible writing production code until I have a failing test.

## The Best Way To Learn

Something I've always felt positive about is my ability to teach. I feel I have
the heart of a teacher, which means that I can empathize with people to
understand the pain they feel. (I've felt the pain too, which always helps). In
the last 7 months I've been devoting myself to studying more effective ways to
promote craftsmanship in front-end development. One of those ways is to teach
more. This has not been easy; front-end development has historically been
treated as a second class citizen. (I could write a whole other blog post about
that alone, but that's a topic for another time). Breaking down barriers between
front-end and back-end developers requires a certain amount of grace and poise
that I didn't have 7 months ago. Being able to effectively communicate solid
engineering principles to back-end oriented developers requires empathy,
compassion, and the ability to communicate using language they understand.

I've often had to put aside my idealism and promote compromise. I've also had to
become humble and admit that sometimes the front-end is not the place where
everything should live. (But I still think there's a whole lot of logic on the
server that shouldn't be there. Again, another topic for another post). The
benefit to engaging developers across architectural boundaries and striving to
teach is that I've been able to learn a lot. I've learned how to effectively
test drive [JavaScript](https://pivotal.github.com/jasmine/) (/hattip
[@searls](https://twitter.com/searls)), how to build scalable, object-oriented
CSS/HTML, how to achieve an appropriate [separation of
concerns](https://documentcloud.github.com/backbone/) on the front-end, and how
to translate n-tier architecture principles from the server-side to my
client-side code. Being at a company like Pillar has provided a rich environment
in which to grow; it's something I'm very grateful for.

## The Path to Agility

Many of my co-workers attended the
[\#pathtoagility](https://twitter.com/#!/search/%23pathtoagility) conference in
Ohio this week. I wasn't able to attend but I think it's fitting to end a post
about my own personal "path to agility" with some forward looking thoughts that
can help you (and me) to continue on that path. Software development is evolving
and changing; set yourself up for success by being willing to evolve and change
right along with it. Agility is more than process or technical solutions; it
involves integrity, accountability and a fundamental paradigm shift in your way
of thinking. Continue to look for ways you can shift your thinking. Be
open-minded. Teaching is a powerful exercise in self examination and growth; try
to spend time teaching those around you, it's worth the investment.
